bé nhỏ
bướng ngang
buồn sầu
chậm muộn
chậm trễ
chật hẹp
cụt cộc
dày rậm
gày còm
giỏi tài
hỗn láo
ít tí
kinh sợ
lạ kì
lạnh rét
ngắn cụt
ngắn vắn
ngay thẳng
ngu dốt
nhầm lầm
nhanh chóng
nhỏ bé
phải đúng
sai lầm
sai trái
thiếu hụt
to lớn
trái ngược
xinh đẹp
xuôi thuận
bằng_lòng hài_lòng
buồn_phiền phiền_muộn
cần_cù chịu_khó
chăm_chỉ chịu_khó
chân_thật chân_thực
chật_hẹp chật_chội
chu_đáo vẹn_toàn
cô_đơn cô_độc
cô_đơn lẻ_loi
cuối_cùng sau_cùng
dâm_ô dâm_loạn
đau_nhức đau_buốt
đầu_tiên trước_tiên
dễ_chịu khoan_khoái
dễ_dãi dễ_dàng
dối_trá lừa_lọc
dốt_nát ngu_dốt
già_cả già_nua
giản_dị đơn_giản
giận_dữ tức_giận
giàu_có giàu_sang
gọn_gàng gọn_ghẽ
hài_lòng vừa_lòng
hiền_hậu hiền_hòa
hiền_lành hiền_hòa
hoang_phí lãng_phí
hoang_phí phung_phí
hư_đốn hư_hỏng
im_lặng yên_tĩnh
khổ_cực vất_vả
khôn_khéo khéo_léo
kĩ_càng cẩn_thận
kiêu_căng kiêu_ngạo
lác_đác thưa_thớt
lười_biếng biếng_nhác
mẫu_mực gương_mẫu
muộn_màng chậm_trễ
nghèo_đói nghèo_khổ
ngu_ngốc dại_dột
phù_hợp thích_hợp
sáng_suốt thông_minh
siêng_năng chịu_khó
thứ_tự trình_tự
tình_cờ bất_chợt
trang_trọng trang_nghiêm
vội_vã vội_vàng
yếu_ớt yếu_đuối
ác ác_độc
ác ác_ôn
ác độc_ác
ác tàn_ác
ấm ấm_áp
ấm ấm_cúng
bạc bạc_bẽo
bạc tệ_bạc
bận bận_bịu
bẩn bẩn_thỉu
bằng bằng_bặn
bằng bằng_phẳng
bé bé_nhỏ
béo béo_ú
bức nóng_bức
buồn buồn_bã
buồn buồn_phiền
căng căng_thẳng
chắc chắc_chắn
chậm chậm_chạp
chậm chậm_trễ
chật chật_chội
chật chật_hẹp
cong cong_queo
dài dài_dòng
dại dại_dột
đậm đậm_đà
đắt đắt_đỏ
đầy đầy_đặn
dễ dễ_dàng
đẹp đèm_đẹp
đẹp xinh_đẹp
dở dở_dang
dối dối_trá
đông đông_đủ
dốt ngu_dốt
đủ đầy_đủ
dư dư_thừa
đúng đúng_đắn
gần gần_gũi
già già_giặn
giả giả_dối
giàu giàu_có
giỏi giỏi_giang
héo héo_hon
hiếm khan_hiếm
hôi hôi_hám
hư hư_hỏng
ít ít_ỏi
khéo khéo_léo
khoẻ khoẻ_khoắn
khoẻ khoẻ_mạnh
khô khô_héo
khó khó_khăn
khó nghèo_khó
khôn khôn_khéo
khôn khôn_ngoan
kĩ kĩ_lưỡng
kín kín_kẽ
lạ lạ_lùng
lạnh giá_lạnh
lành lành_lặn
lâu lâu_dài
lẻ lẻ_loi
lười lười_biếng
mặn mặn_mà
mau mau_chóng
may may_mắn
mềm mềm_mại
mờ mờ_nhạt
mừng mừng_rỡ
nặng nặng_nề
ngay ngay_ngắn
ngay ngay_thẳng
nghèo nghèo_hèn
nghèo nghèo_khổ
ngoan ngoan_ngoãn
ngọt ngọt_ngào
nhanh nhanh_chóng
nhanh nhanh_nhẹn
nhạt nhạt_nhẽo
nhẹ nhẹ_nhàng
nhiều nhiều_nhặn
nhỏ nhỏ_bé
no no_nê
ốm ốm_yếu
rét rét_mướt
rỗi rảnh_rỗi
rộng rộng_rãi
rủi rủi_ro
sai sai_sót
sai sai_trái
siêng siêng_năng
sớm sớm_sủa
sướng sung_sướng
tàn héo_hon
thẳng thẳng_tắp
thẳng thắng_thắn
thật chân_thật
thật thật_thà
thiệt thiệt_thòi
thiếu thiếu_sót
thơm thơm_tho
thưa thưa_thớt
tỉnh tỉnh_táo
tối tối_tăm
tốt tươi_tốt
trắng trắng_thẻo
trẻ trẻ_trung
trẻ trẻ_trung
trong trẻo
tục thô_tục
tươi tươi_tắn
vắng vắng_vẻ
vui vui_mừng
vui vui_sướng
vui vui_vẻ
vững vẵng_chắc
vững vững_vàng
vụng vụng_về
vuông vuông_vắn
xanh xanh_xao
xấu xấu_xa
xa xa_cách
xinh xinh_đẹp
xinh xinh_xắn
yếu ốm_yếu
yếu yếu_đuối
yêu yêu_quý
ba bố
bố cha
mẹ má
bã cặn
bắc bấc
cân kg
lợn heo
nam nồm
vừng mè 
ảnh chân_dung
ảnh hình_ảnh
bạn bạn_bè
chó chó_má
chùa chàu_chiền
cỏ cỏ_rả
công công_lao
dân nhân_dân
đất đất_đai
đồn đồn_bốt
gà gà_qué
gậy gậy_gộc
giá giá_cả
giá giá_trị
lính binh_lính
màu màu_mè
màu màu_sắc
nam nam_giới
nạn tai_nạn
nữ nữ_giới
quân quân_lính
tội tội_lỗi
tuổi tuổi_tác
máy máy_móc
chồng phu_quân
nghề nghề_nghiệp
vợ phu_nhân
bán buôn_bán
bỏ từ_bỏ
cầm cầm_nắm
chết qua_đời
chết từ_trần
chiếm chiếm_đoạt
chôn chôn_cất
chống chống_cự
chọn lựa_chọn
chửa có_mang
chửa có_thai
cố cố_gắng
cười cười_đùa
dặn dặn_dò
đánh đánh_đập
đào đào_bới
doạ đe_doạ
doạ doạ_nạt
đợi chờ_đợi
đổi thay_đổi
đón đón_tiếp
đưa đưa_tiễn
dùng sử_dụng
đuổi xua_đuổi
gật gật_gù
ghét ghét_bỏ
giết tiêu_diệt
hết cạn_kiệt
khen khen_ngợi
khoe khoe_khoang
mong mong_muốn
nghỉ nghỉ_ngơi
nghĩ suy_nghĩ
nhận thu_nhận
nhường nhường_nhịn
nịnh nịnh_hót
phạt trừng_phạt
quen quen_thuộc
quét quét_dọn
rửa rửa_ráy
sợ hoảng_sợ
sợ sợ_hãi
sửa sửa_chữa
thích yêu_thích
thua thất_bại
thuê thuê_mượn
tìm tìm_kiếm
trách trách_móc
trêu trêu_ghẹo
trộm ăn_trộm
vay vay_mượn
yêu yêu_thương
ăn_trộm ăn_cắp
ăn_trộm ăn_cướp
áp_dụng vận_dụng
bác_bỏ phủ_định
bàn_bạc thảo_luận
bày_tỏ trình_bày
buôn_bán kinh_doanh
ca_ngợi ngợi_ca
cấp_bách vội_vàng
chăm_sóc chăm_lo
chăm_sóc trông_nom
chê_bai chê_cười
che_đắp che_đậy
chế_giễu nhạo_báng
chôn_cất mai_táng
chọn_lựa chọn_lọc
cưỡng_bức bắt_buộc
đam_mê say_mê
dẫn_dắt dìu_dắt
dành_dụm tiết_kiệm
đe_doạ doạ_nạt
đè_nén ức_hiếp
dính_dáng liên_quan
đòi_hỏi yêu_cầu
đổi_thay biến_hoá
đụng_chạm va_chạm
đương_đầu chống_cự
e_thẹn xấu_hổ
gắn_bó ràng_buộc
gấp_gáp vội_vã
giả_vờ giả_bộ
giải_thích giảng_giải
giảm_bớt giảm_sút
giữ_gìn bảo_vệ
giúp_đỡ tương_trợ
ham_mê say_mê
hấp_dẫn lôi_cuốn
khen_ngợi ca_ngợi
khoe_khoang khoác_lác
lẩn_trốn trốn_tránh
leo_trèo trèo_leo
liên_can liên_luỵ
lo_lắng lo_ngại
lo_lắng lo_sợ
lo_sợ lo_ngại
mong_muốn khao_khát
mong_ước khao_khát
ngạc_nhiên kinh_ngạc
nịnh_hót nịnh_nọt
nổi_tiếng có_tiếng
nối_tiếp kế_tiếp
rèn_luyện luyện_tập
suy_nghĩ tư_duy
tắm_giặt tắm_gội
tập_trung tụ_họp
thân_thiện thân_mật
than_thở kêu_ca
than_thở phàn_nàn
thảo_luận trao_đổi
thay_đổi đổi_thay
thi_đua ganh_đua
thương_lượng đàm_phán
thương_lượng dàn_xếp
tìm_kiếm tìm_tòi
tổn_thất tổn_hại
trêu_chọc châm_chọc
trêu_chòng trêu_ghẹo
trình_bày phát_biểu
trình_bày thuyết_trình
trừng_phạt trừng_trị
tu_sửa sửa_chữa
ức_hiếp ăn_hiếp
ứng_dụng vận_dụng
va_chạm va_vấp
xâm_chiếm thôn_tính
xâm_chiếm xâm_lược
yêu_thương yêu_mến
ăn xơi 
bọc gói
cắt xắt
cáu gắt
chắn ngăn
chết mất
chia tách
cho biếu
chờ đợi
chọn lựa 
chứa đựng
chữa sửa
đau nhức
đến tới
đẽo gọt
đưa tiễn
đụng chạm
giảm bớt
mang vác
mừng vui
ngã té
sinh đẻ
tăng thêm
tập luyện
thắng được 
thua bại
thưa vắng
thúc giục
tiêu chi_tiêu
trêu ghẹo
trộm cắp
trông coi
trốn tránh
yêu thích
áp_dụng vận_dụng
bằng_lòng hài_lòng
bắt_đầu khởi_đầu
bất_ngờ bất_chợt
bế_mạc kết_thúc
bênh_vực bảo_vệ
bênh_vực che_chở
bồi_thường đền_bù
chấp_hành thi_hành
chỉ_huy điều_khiển
chiếm_đoạn chiếm_hữu
chiến_thắng thắng_lợi
chú_ý chú_trọng
chuẩn_bị sửa_soạn
cố_gắng nỗ_lực
có_thai có_mang
cố_tình cố_ý
công_khai minh_bạch
diễn_đạt biểu_đạt
diễn_tả miêu_tả
dính_dáng liên_quan
đối_phó ứng_phó
đồng_tình đồng_ý
đồng_ý tán_thành
giả_mạo giả_dạng
giả_mạo giả_danh
giái_thích lí_giải
giống_nhau tương_tự
hoàn_thành kết_thúc
kết_thúc chấm_dứt
khai_mạc mở_màn
khái_quát bao_quát
khái_quát tổng_quát
khám_phá phát_hiện
khen_ngợi biểu_dương
khinh_bỉ miệt_thị
khuyến_khích động_viên
kính_trọng tôn_trọng
làm_dáng làm_đỏm
làm_dáng làm_duyên
làm_sao tại_sao
làm_việc lao_động
lãnh_đạo chỉ_đạo
lệ_thuộc phụ_thuộc
liên_tục liên_tiếp
loanh_quanh luẩn_quẩn
mở_đầu khai_mạc
mở_màn mở_đầu
ngạc_nhiên kinh_ngạc
phô_trương khoa_trương
tố_cáo vạch_trần
tự_tử tự_sát
tương_tự tương_đồng
tuyên_dương biểu_dương
bất không
bất vô
địa đất
giang sông
gia nhà
hậu sau
hữu có
lục sáu
lục sáu
mã ngựa
ngưu trâu
phong gió
quốc nước 
sơn núi
tam ba
thiên trời
thuỷ nước 
tiền trước
tử chết
vân mây
vô phi
ăn_mày hành_khất
bác_sĩ thầy_thuốc
bênh_viện trạm_xá
bênh_xá trạm_xá
bộ_đội chiến_sĩ
bộ_đội quân_đội
bối_cảnh hoàn_cảnh
chính_sách chủ_trương
công_cụ dụng_cụ
công_cụ phương_tiện
đàn_bà phụ_nữ
đàn_bà phụ_nữ
đàn_ông nam_giới
danh_tiếng tiếng_tăm
đất_nước quốc_gia
địa_ngục âm_phủ
địa_phương khu_vực
điểm_mạnh ưu_điểm
diễn_văn diễn_thuyết
đồ_đạc vật_dụng
đồ_dùng đồ_đạc
đồ_dùng dụng_cụ
dòng_dõi dòng_họ
du_côn côn_đồ
dụng_cụ đồ_dùng
gia_đình gia_quyến
giai_đoạn thời_kì
giáo_sư giảng_viên
giáo_viên nhà_giáo
giấy_tờ giấy_má
hải_phận vùng_biển
hàng_xóm láng_giềng
hoàn_cảnh tình_huống
học_lực trình_độ
học_sinh học_trò
học_trò học_sinh
kết_quả thành_quả
kết_quả thành_tựu
khán_giả người_xem
không_phận bầu_trời
không_phận vùng_trời
làng_mạc thôn_bản
máy_tính computer
mướp_đắng khổ_qua
mưu_mẹo mưu_kế
năng_lực khả_năng
ngân_hàng nhà_băng
ngoại_ô ngoại_thành
nguyên_nhân lí_do
nhà_máy công_xưởng
nhà_nông nông_dân
nhân_tố yếu_tố
nhiệm_vụ trách_nhiệm
nhược_điểm thiếu_sót
nòng_cốt cốt_cán
phát_minh sáng_chế
phụ_kiện phụ_tùng
phương_pháp cách_thức
quần_chúng công_chúng
quan_điểm lập_trường
quan_điểm quan_niệm
quân_lính quân_sĩ
sao_hôm sao_mai
sổ_tay cẩm_nang
suy_nghĩ tư_duy
tai_nạn tai_hoạ
tài_xế lái_xe
tang_chứng tang_vật
tàu_bay máy_bay
tàu_hoả xe_lửa
thành_tựu thành_quả
thấy_giáo giáo_viên
thầy_giáo nhà_giáo
thầy_thuốc bác_sĩ
thầy_thuốc lương_y
thính_giả người_nghe
thời_gian thời_giờ
thôn_xóm làng_bản
thuốc thuốc_men
thuốc thuốc_thang
thương_nhân thương_gia
trách_nhiệm nghĩa_vụ
trần_gian hạ_giới
trẻ_con trẻ_nhỏ
tự_nhiên thiên_nhiên
đậu_tương đậu_nành
mướp_đắng khổ_qua
Trần_Quốc_Tuấn Trần_Hưng_Đạo
Hồ_Chí_Minh Nguyễn_Ái_Quốc
Thích_Ca_Mâu_Ni Tất_Đạt_Đa
Quang_Trung Nguyễn_Huệ
Nguyễn_Trãi Ức_Trai
Khổng_Tử Khổng_Khâu
Ấn_Độ India
Cửu_Long Mê_kông
Dương_Tử Trường_Giang
Hà_Nội Thăng_Long 
Mạc_Tư_Khoa Moscova
Miến_Điện Myanma
Mĩ Hoa_Kì
Nhật_Bản Japan
Philipines Phi_Luật_Tân
Sông_Hồng Nhị_Hà
Thanh_Hoá xứ_Thanh
Trung_Quốc Trung_Hoa
Úc Australia
Việt_Nam Đại_Việt
Ý Italia
Washington Hao_Thịnh_Đốn
Indonesia Nam_Dương
Hoa_kì Huê_Kì
Hoàng Sa_Paracel